---
layout: section
title:  "Tablet Four"
subtitle: The Space Born
icon: "tablet-four"
---

List ye, O man, to the voice of wisdom,
list to the voice of THOTH, the Atlantean.

Freely I give to thee of my wisdom,
gathered from the time and space of this cycle;
master of mysteries, SUN of the morning,
living forever, a child of the LIGHT,
shining with brightness, star of the morning,

THOTH the teacher of men, is of ALL.
Long time ago, I in my childhood,
lay 'neath the stars on long-buried ATLANTIS,
dreaming of mysteries far above men.

Then in my heart grew there a great longing to
conquer the pathway that led to the stars.
Year after year, I sought after wisdom,
seeking new knowledge, following the way,
until at last my SOUL, in great travail,
broke from its bondage and bounded away.

Free was I from the bondage of earth-men.
Free from the body, I flashed through the night.
Unlocked at last for me was the star-space.
Free was I from the bondage of night.
Now to the end of space sought I wisdom,
far beyond knowledge of finite man.

Far into space, my SOUL traveled freely
into infinity's circle of light.
Strange, beyond knowledge, were some of the planets,
great and gigantic, beyond dreams of men.

Yet found I Law, in all of its beauty, working
through and among them as here among men.

Flashed forth my soul through infinity's beauty,
far through space
I flew with my thoughts.

Rested I there on a planet of beauty.
Strains of harmony filled all the air.

Shapes there were, moving in Order,
great and majestic as stars in the night;
mounting in harmony, ordered equilibrium,
symbols of the Cosmic, like unto Law.

Many the stars I passed in my journey,
many the races of men on their worlds;
some reaching high as stars of the morning,
some falling low in the blackness of night.

Each and all of them struggling upward,
gaining the heights and plumbing the depths,
moving at times in realms of brightness,
living through darkness, gaining the Light.

Know, O man, that Light is thine heritage.
Know that darkness is only a veil.
Sealed in thine heart is brightness eternal,
waiting the moment of freedom to conquer,
waiting to rend the veil of the night.

Some I found who had conquered the ether.
Free of space were they while yet they were men.
Using the force that is the foundation of ALL things,
far in space constructed they a planet,
drawn by the force that flows through the ALL;
condensing, coalescing the ether into forms,
that grew as they willed.

Outstripping in science, they, all of the races,
mighty in wisdom, sons of the stars.
Long time I paused, watching their wisdom.
Saw them create from out of the ether cities
gigantic of rose and gold.
Formed forth from the primal element,
base of all matter, the ether far flung.

Far in the past, they had conquered the ether,
freed themselves from the bondage of toil;
formed in heir mind only a picture and swiftly
created, it grew.


Forth then, my soul sped, throughout the Cosmos,
seeing ever, new things and old;
learning that man is truly space-born,
a Sun of the Sun,
a child of the stars.

Know ye, O man, whatever from ye inhabit,
surely it is one with the stars.

Thy bodies are nothing but planets revolving
around their central suns.

When ye have gained the light of all wisdom,
free shall ye be to shine in the ether --
one of the Suns that light outer darkness --
one of the space-born grown into Light.

Just as the stars in time lose their brilliance,
light passing from them in to the great source,
so, O man, the soul passes onward,
leaving behind the darkness of night.

Formed forth ye, from the primal ether,
filled with the brilliance that
flows from the source,
bound by the ether coalesced around,
yet ever it flames until at last it is free.

Lift up your flame from out of the darkness,
fly from the night and ye shall be free.

Traveled I through the space-time,
knowing my soul at last was set free,
knowing that now might I pursue wisdom.
Until at last, I passed to a plane,
hidden from knowledge,
known not to wisdom,
extension beyond all that we know.

Now, O man, when I had this knowing,
happy my soul grew,
for now I was free.
Listen, ye space-born,
list to my wisdom:
know ye not that ye, too, will be free.

List ye again, O man, to my wisdom,
that hearing, ye too, might live and be free.
Not of the earth are ye -- earthy,
but child of the Infinite Cosmic Light.

Know ye not, O man, of your heritage?
Know ye not ye are truly the Light?
Sun of the Great Sun, when ye gain wisdom,
truly aware of your kinship with Light.

Now, to ye, I give knowledge,
freedom to walk in the path I have trod,
showing ye truly how by my striving,
I trod the path that leads to the stars.

Hark ye, O man, and know of thy bondage,
know how to free thyself from the toils.
Out of the darkness shall ye rise upward,
one with the Light and one with the stars.

Follow ye ever the path of wisdom.
Only by this can ye rise from below.
Ever man's destiny leads him onward
into the Curves of Infinity's ALL.

Know ye, O man, that all space is ordered.
Only by Order are ye One with the ALL.
Order and balance are the Law of the Cosmos.
Follow and ye shall be One with the ALL.

He who would follow the pathway of wisdom,
open must be to the flower of life,
extending his consciousness out of the darkness,
flowing through time and space in the ALL.

Deep in the silence,
first ye must linger until at last ye
are free from desire,
free from the longing to speak in the silence.

Conquer by silence, the bondage of words.
Abstaining from eating until we have conquered
desire for food, that is bondage of soul.

Then lie ye down in the darkness.
Close ye your eyes from the rays of the Light.
Centre thy soul-force in the place of thine consciousness,
shaking it free from the bonds of the night.

Place in thy mind-place the image thou desireth.
Picture the place thou desireth to see.
Vibrate back and forth with thy power.
Loosen the soul from out of its night.
Fiercely must thou shake with all of thy power
until at last thy soul shall be free.

Mighty beyond words is the flame of the Cosmic,
hanging in planes, unknown to man;
mighty and balanced, moving in Order,
music of harmonies, far beyond man.

Speaking with music, singing with colour,
flame from the beginning of Eternity's ALL.
Spark of the flame art thou, O my children,
burning with colour and living with music.
List to the voice and thou shalt be free.

Consciousness free is fused with the Cosmic,
One with the Order and Low of the ALL.
Knew ye not man, that out of the darkness,
Light shall flame forth, a symbol of ALL.

Pray ye this prayer for attaining or wisdom.
Pray for the coming of Light to the ALL.

Mighty SPIRIT of LIGHT that shines through the
Cosmos, draw my flame closer in harmony to thee.
Lift up my fire from out of the darkness,
magnet of fire that is One with the ALL.
Lift up my soul, thou might and potent.
Child of the Light, turn not away.
Draw me in power to melt in thy furnace;
One with all things and all things
in One, fire of the life-strain and
One with the Brain.

When ye have freed thy soul from its bondage,
know that for ye the darkness is gone.
Ever through space ye may seek wisdom,
bound not be fetters forged in the flesh.

Onward and upward into the morning, free flash,
O Soul, to the realms of Light. Move thou in Order,
move thou in Harmony, freely shalt move
with the Children of Light.

Seek ye and know ye, my KEY of Wisdom.
Thus, O man, ye shall surely be free.

